# Decision GPT
In this paper, we propose a novel method to leverage artificial intelligence to help us make critical decisions that aren’t just simple "Yes" or "No" answers, but more like the choices we face in life and business that have pros and cons. As part of this exercise, we focused on the use case of venture capitalists (VC) that make investment decisions. VCs confront these tough decisions every day at scale. Our approach is built on the foundations laid in our prior decision-making frameworks powered by deep learning-based models and Founder-GPT [Xiong and Ihlamur, 2023], which utilized Large Language Models (LLMs) [OpenAI, 2023] and self-play techniques to assess founders’ profiles against their ideas to make startup investment decisions. In this pursuit, we make several improvements such as enhanced data quality, optimization of similarity search weights, integrated unsupervised feature generation and efficiency gains through concurrent execution. At a high level, we determine the characteristics of successful founders and ideas using LLMs, and compile a list of traits that matter for success. Then we incorporate this list in the evaluation process of a specific startup that is considered for investment. This effort is a step toward the more efficient use of resources to accelerate innovation. The framework we present can be expanded to other decision-making use cases and domains.

# Paper
Please see the detailed explanation of the framework, our academic contributions and its implementation at this [link]([url](https://github.com/velapartners/decision-gpt-paper/blob/main/Decision%20GPT%20-%20A%20framework%20to%20make%20critical%20decisions.pdf).
